Hatsue Yuhara (17 March 1916 - 2 January 1999) was a Rosen feminist, political theorist, and socialist. She was the progenitor of Hatsue Yuhara Thought and later a major contributor to [[Almeidaism]]. She was a prominent pacifist and critic of the [[Rosen Republic]]'s interventionist policy throughout the [[Cold War]]. In addition to pacifism, Yuhara had found fame in the feminist movement, advocating for marital abolition, homosexual rights, and female liberation. Her manifesto, *Socialist-Feminist Liberation*, became a seminal text in Rosen social policy and led to Yuhara's introduction to [[Jorge Almeida]].
Born in Toukami in 1916, Yuhara was raised by an abusive father and an absent mother. She attended an all-girls private school, which she cited as a major inspiration for her future feminist ideological development. Yuhara studied sociology at São Fontana University, where she successfully campaigned for and secured equal pay for female teachers. This experience contributed to her economic ideology, which began to take the forefront of her work as inequality in the Republic worsened. Yuhara entered political activism in the 1940s, founding the Rosen-Sayan Friendship Committee in 1944, which intended to reduce tensions between the communist [[Sayan Union]] and the capitalist Rosen Republic. Following the failure and dissolution of this project, Yuhara was imprisoned on charges of sedition. Imprisoned for five years and placed on house arrest for another twenty, she began to write furiously in captivity, developing ideas that would come to characterize her work; these included ideas such as marital abolition and the dignity principle. Her release coincided with the end of the [[Kuligites|Kuligite Restoration]], which resulted in her acquaintance with Jorge Almeida. The two remained in a domestic partnership until Almeida's death. Yuhara is credited as a major contributor to Almeida's later policy.
Yuhara's legacy remains somewhat controversial in the modern-day [[Rosen Commonwealth]]. She is seen as an integral member of the *[[The Five Figures]]*[^1], but her rhetoric on feminism and marriage contradicts social norms in certain Rosen ethnic groups, which leads to varying conceptions regarding Yuhara.

[^1]: A term referring to five major socialist thinkers and revolutionaries that contributed to modern socialist thought in the Commonwealth. These figures included Jorge Almeida, Hatsue Yuhara, Deng Liang, Cora Cavaleri, and Bartosz Rybicki.
