---
dg-publish: true
---
Jorge Soares Almeida, (12 September 1918 - 3 April 1985) was a Rosen social and political theorist, economist, and socialist. He is best known for devising a branch of democratic socialist ideology, known as [[Almeidaism]], through several books, letters, and speeches between 1969 and 1984. His *magnum opus*, *[[Nova Sociedade]]*, outlines the core principles of the ideology and is still used to guide governance in the modern-day [[Rosen Commonwealth]]. Other works, including *Mundo*, *Our*, and *Socialist Economics for the Twenty-First Century* are also considered major works in Almeidaism and are collectively referred to as the "São Lola Series."
Born in Palruaru, on the outskirts of São Lola, he was raised by his mother, Elaine Soares, who was a prominent trade unionist. Almeida studied economics at the University of São Lola and was formally introduced to democratic socialism in 1940 by Renato Brito, a classmate and prominent critic of the ongoing Sayan Revolution. Almeida fled the [[Rosen Republic]] in 1961 during President Eric Marques's crackdown on leftist politics, only returning after the Amnesty Act was ratified. While in exile in Montgomery, Almeida observed the ongoing organization of the socialist movement in Saya and developed his first critique in an unfinished manuscript, *Socialism in Saya*. Upon Almeida's return to the Republic in 1966, he began to write full-time, composing works like *Mundo* and *Our*. Almeida also began to seriously take up political activism, engaging with civil rights and feminist movements. At this time he met Hatsue Yuhara, who became a major contributor to Almeidaist thought and his occasional domestic partner. Yuhara is often credited with introducing the concept of marital abolition to Almeida. Throughout the 1970s, Almeida continued to advocate for socialist causes, acquiring a major following within the [[Socialist Party|WSPRC]]. While Almeida was initially optimistic regarding the [[First Rosen Commonwealth|First Commonwealth]], he became disillusioned with Julian Rybicki's ideology and began to openly criticize his general-secretaryship. Rybicki disappeared Almeida in March 1985 and executed him and several other Almeidaists in April of that year.


Future development on Almeidaism is codified in the Commonwealth's [[List of Departments, Offices, and Agencies In the Rosen Commonwealth#Office of Socialist Policy|Office of Socialist Policy]]; notable contributors include Hatsue Yuhara, Deng Liang, [[Olgierd Trela]], and 