> *In the brave new world of the 21st century, there is only war*.
> 
> Jacob Petersen, on the *Avaya Project*

For a country as peaceful as the gracefully-aging Rosen Commonwealth, it sees a lot of war. It can be considered obscene how a man in rural Tuvaya is given a home, light, and water for free while children in The Arawad sit on the street, in the dark, with parched lips and naught but a dream of electricity. In a world where nuclear fusion revolutionized the energy industry and provided infinite power for all, then why doesn't everyone have access to it?
The inspiration behind this project (Vekllei by Hobart Phillips, Link: [MillMint](https://millmint.net/)) puts a strong emphasis on this idea of *utopia*. Phillips cites a lot of academic and intelligent-sounding authors and philosophers on the different kinds of utopia, the difference between utopia and dystopia, and the historical development of both concepts. It's complicated and not my cup of tea, but from what I can distill, Phillips' thesis is this: *utopia isn't perfect*. Hobart has a particularly relevant essay to this idea (as well as worldbuilding as a whole) called [Utopie Concrète*](https://millmint.net/millmint/essays/utopie/), which essentially tackled the same idea of “concrete utopia” I'm addressing right now.

So back to the Commonwealth. Pacifism is king in the Commonwealth. The state's foreign policy has been, for decades, "stay quiet, help out a bit, and hope nobody notices us," which is very much counterproductive to providing light and water to the children of The Arawad.
How does a world superpower end up at that line of thinking? The answer is short and sweet: history. Prior to the [[Second Rosen Commonwealth]]'s 64-year tenure as the steward of Rosen democracy and enlightenment, there was little for the Rosens but violence, mindless consumption, and apathy. In the Rosen Federal Union, there was constant bickering and indecision until the rights of the citizen were wrestled away by the autocratic Red Council. In the Rosen Republic, there was democracy and free speech that eroded into a convoluted, polarized, and corporatist society built on the paranoia of the Cold War. In the First Rosen Commonwealth, the first attempt at inclusive, equitable, and ordered democracy, politics turned into a rubber-stamp centered on Julian Rybicki and his Socialist Party.
Naturally, the Commonwealth would want to avoid the seemingly inevitable cycle of war and reform I wrote it into. So the solution? Don't get involved. The Commonwealth, since 1989, has seen two wars, one of which is ongoing. The first was to resolve economic and land disputes with Veola; the war lasted four months and saw the deaths of thirty-two Rosens. Peanuts, essentially.
The second is more complicated. The Commonwealth alleges that the People’s Republic of Veytu (or simply Veytu) had been funding militant communist groups in the neighboring Commonwealth republic of Namaya. Citing Veytuan terrorism, (and in turn self defense as *casus belli*), the Rosen Commonwealth invaded Veytu to locate and eliminate terrorist groups while pressuring the Veytuan state to move away from autocratic communism. The controversy is that *there was no terrorism connected to Veytuan communist groups*, which of course brings the justification of the whole operation into question.
Why am I mentioning this? It’s an aberration. In sixty-four years, the country with the largest GDP, the highest standard of living, the lowest levels of financial inequality, involved itself in *two* wars. 

